We have already defined
the degree of the node
as the number of edges connected to it.
Thus specifying if a node is
more connected than another.
Looking closer we can separate out
that two components denotes
degrees into in degree and out.
Which are the counts of the incident and
the outgoing edges of a node respectively.
In the example graph G has an indegree and
outdegree of three making
the total degree equal to six.
We first construct this degree table for
each node.
It's a simple procedure where we count
the number of nodes with degree.
0, 1, 2, and so forth.
The degree versus count table is
a degree histogram of the graph.
We can compare two graphs by computing
the vector distance between them.
One simplistic measure is
just the Euclidean distance.
For our case, the degree
histogram based on comparisons of
the histograms find the graphs
to be very similar.
The more sophisticated
methods are available but
are outside the scope of this course.
We can also compute histograms
of just the in degree or
just the out degree of the graph.
But perhaps more interesting is the joint
two dimensional histogram of the graph,
the colorful histogram of the graph
can be interpreted here as follows.
The graph has a maximum in degree of
three and a maximum out degree of three.
This creates a two-dimensional
histogram with four times four
equal to 16 different joined values.
The actual value for any combination
is computed from the graph and
color coded in the ratings.
For example, there is no node with
in degree 0 and out degree 0.
So the lower-left square of the graph
has value zero and color-coded blue.
On the other hand, there are two nodes
with in-degree three and out-degree three.
Thus, the top-right corner has the value
twp, which is 20% of the nodes.
Color coded as light green.
The 2D histogram provides
an interesting insight.
The nodes with more incident
edges than outgoing edges
represent entities that take
in more than they put out.
In a social networking setting,
they represent members who are listeners.
They receive a lot of posts,
but send much fewer posts.
On the opposite side of the spectrum,
there are talkers whose out-degrees
exceed their in-degrees.
The entities that are in between,
we have both large values of in-degree and
out-degree.
These are communicators.
In this graph, there seems to
be more talkers than listeners.
Not surprising though.
My social media friends
show similar statistics.